The default-information originate command
allows you to advertise a default route in RIP.
At the moment on router 1 show ip route
doesn’t show a default route and the gateway of last resort is not set.
The same is true on router 2, gateway of last resort is not set
no default static route.
On router 3 I could advertise a default route into the RIP process
by using the command default-information originate.
Now on router 2, the gateway of last resort has been set to router 3
and notice a default route has been added to the routing table on router 1
the same thing is true.
Now, this is useful if you connect to the Internet.
So I’m going to connect router 3 to the Internet
in this case, I’m bridging the cloud to my local PC's network adapter
and I’m going to configure F0/1 on router 3 with DHCP
so IP address DHCP I’ll no shut it
so what I should see is that I get allocated an IP address
through DHCP at the moment F0/1 hasn’t got an IP address assigned
I see a message on my console showing me that this address was allocated
so show ip interface brief again
shows me that that IP address was allocated to the router
on the router now show ip route
shows me that this router also has a default route to this router
which is my Internet router.
I'm going to enable ip domain-lookup
and I’m going set the DNS server to Google in this example
so router 3 is able to ping Google
looks like my Internet isn't very good at the moment
but the DNS did resolve and I’m able to ping Google.
It’s actually used the Internet router as the DNS server in this example.
On router 2 ip domain-lookup
ip name-server, this case we'll set it to Google.
show ip route we’ve got our default route, ping google.com.
Now in this example, it’s not going to work
because my Internet router doesn’t know about these routes.
These routes are not being advertised into my local area network.
I’m only running RIP on F0/0 the loopback interface is 0 and 1
RIP is not enabled on this interface.
So what I’ll do is go into the interface
and enable NAT quickly
just to show you an example of RIP and NAT working together
it took a while there, F0/0 is inside
IP NAT inside source list access list 1 interface F0/1 overload
so in this example, I’m enabling PAT on the router
please refer to the NAT section for more detail
on how to set up NAT
so hopefully that will allow me to connect to the Internet now
which I can now do on router 2, because NAT has been enabled on router 1.
So router 2 can ping the Internet
router 1 is receiving a default route through RIP
and can I ping Google, at the moment not, I need to enable IP domain-lookup
and I need to specify DNS server so ping google.com
the DNS query succeeded and I’m able to ping google.com
so in this example, I used the command default-information originate
to advertise a default route to all RIP routers in the topology.
I didn’t have to configure a default route on router 1 or router 2
they learned about the default route from router 3
through RIP because of this command.
Additionally, in this example, I enabled NAT on this interface
because I’m not running RIP on this network which is a 192.168.1.0 network
RIP is only running on this interface and the loopbacks of router 3.